---
title: Pokemon HeartGold, 2025-10-14
date-created: 2025-10-14
---
A few days ago (on the 11th to be precise) Trice and I started a playthrough of Pokemon HeartGold, which I'm playing on the Delta Emulator on iOS. Johto is one of the two regions I've not yet played, the other being Alola, so HeartGold has been around the top of my list of games to play for a while now.

Of course, as I write this, it's just two days away from the release of Pokemon Legends ZA (2025-10-16), so that game might supercede this one for a while. Nonetheless, I'm gonna write a little diary about how this playthrough of Pokemon HeartGold is going, and update it as I go along, however much that ends up being.

### Beginnings

Our journey begins in New Bark Town (after a nostalgic Professor Oak cutscene), and we get immediately reminded that this is a DS Pokemon game and you do not get to run yet! The walking speed is agonizingly slow, but thankfully it doesn't last for too long in this game.</p>

We go to Professor Elm's lab where we get our first Pokemon! This is always a difficult decision for me; thankfully I didn't have to make it: Trice chose **Chikorita**! We named her **Niamh**, with an eye to her final evolution, Meganium (she's technically a male Pokemon but we didn't bother soft-resetting for a girl).

We also get our initial tasks, which are to head over to Mr. Pokemon's house, obtain the Running Shoes along the way, head back with the Mystery Egg, bump into and battle the red-haired boy. Once we get back we find out that one of the other starter Pokemon were stolen by the red-haired boy and we get to name him! I just called him Silver, which is his canon name, since I'm not a big fan of renaming my rivals in the first place.

We get taught to use Poke Balls by Ethan and we're finally on our way, properly this time. In Route 29 we catch our second team member, **Aoife the Sentret**, as we decide to give each of our team members Irish names. We go by Cherrygrove City, Route 30, Route 31, and end up in Violet City.

### Violet City

The first time upon reaching Violet City, the amount of new space to explore was a little overwhelming: There's Route 32 to the south, Route 36 to the west, and the Ruins of Alph in between the two. I think the Ruins of Alph is ignorable for now, and the other two Routes are blocked off relatively early on, so it's all fine actually.

Getting here we've been giving Aoife a lot of the experience, since the first Gym Leader, Falkner, is a Flying-type specialist. We climb Sprout Tower with Aoife, with the Normal-type Scratch and Quick Attack making quick work of all the Bellsprouts. We reach the top, fight Elder Li, and head back to the Gym.

The Violet City Gym was pretty fun to run through with Aoife, who's just learned Fury Swipes at Level 13. Falkner's the first trainer that gives us a real challenge - his own Level 13 Pidgeotto is far more powerful than anything we've seen so far - but we got very lucky in the fight, Aoife getting 5 hits of Fury Swipes twice in a row to take down Falkner's ace in just two attacks. Thus, thanks to our incredible Sentret, we obtain the Zephyr badge!

### Onwards to Azalea Town

Now it's time to head south towards Azalea Town. In Route 32, we pick up yet another Pokemon for our team: **Máire the Mareep**! Sure, she could have come in handy against Falkner, but we hadn't met her yet. We caught Máire right before the entrance to Union Cave, so we're about to have a nice time switch training for a while.

And actually, we went through all of Union Cave with Máire in our first team-slot, which we didn't realize was attracting more wild Pokemon using her Static ability! We caught on at the exit to Route 33, and swapped in Aoife to head back up the cave to fully explore the top path. So much easier! I guess that's what we get for trying to train an Electric type in a cave.

Finally, we exit the cave, fight one last trainer on Route 33, and reach the Azalea Town Pokemon Center. That's where we're up to, for now. I'm having lots of fun and I even though I can't wait for Legends ZA, I also don't think I'll stop also playing HeartGold. We'll see.