---
id: 60
date: 2026-01-02
title: Developing a Graphical Standings Tool
category: fun
subtitle: "Part 14: Plotting PWHL data"
post-series: gstool
published: true
---
So! We now have all we need to create a basic graphic for the PWHL. I thought that basically I should pretty much code what we need to do in order to create this graphic, and then bring them into a new file. 

Here's a list of what the program will have to do:
- Add links to stylesheets (and perhaps create them?)
- Add titles to the plot and both axes
- Plot the appropriate breaks, ticks, and tick labels
- Plot the appropriate dots (to become "pills")
- Plot the appropriate segments (with the relevant CSS classes)
- Plot the appropriate images next to the plotted lines

Let's get started.

### Breaks, ticks, tick labels
I'm gonna want to create axis breaks, ticks, and tick labels more easily. Right now, I'm requiring a full list of breaks. which is more convenient and technically more general, but I've thought of a way to make the experience more useable from a practical point of view.

I'm writing a function, `add_regular_breaks()`, to a new class, `GSToolGraphic`, which will draw breaks along each of the axes at regular intervals, with a guaranteed break at 0.

To find the maximal value at which to break, given an interval `n` and a maximal plotted value of `x_max`, I need to find the largest multiple of `n` which is less than or equal to `x_max`. Similarly, I will need to find the minimal multiple of `n` which is greater than or equal to a minimal plotted value `x_min`.

To answer to the first problem is `x_max - (x_max % n)`, while the answer to the second is `x_min + (-x_min % n)`. This ended up working out okay! I also added a CSS property to my stylesheet: `stroke-linecap: square`, for the axes. This lines everything up more nicely.