---
title: What this is, and what it'll be next
date-created: 2025-09-07
post-id: 2
category: website
---
So like, this website is mostly me throwing myself at the task of making a website and hoping it'll work, and for it has, so far. I just started an HTML file in VSCode and realized that that's all one really needs, at the end of the day, although of course I'm learning first-hand why, for example, people use stylesheets and JavaScript. one of the first things I noticed, actually, while making this collection of HTML files was that I wanted to know how to reuse my HTML code, so that there'd be one thing to edit rather than multiple. I've ended up making a custom element using "Web Components" which I don't fully understand but which at least is something I can try and grasp eventually.

There's a lot of things I want to do and learn with this site, some of them are probably just a Google away but I thought it'd be good to write it down here (and not just my notebook):

- Blog: Text formatting (How do I italicize text? What's the best way to type an en-dash?)
- Blog: Can I store my blog posts somewhere other than this HTML file, and then bring them in using code?
- Blog: Can I automatically format the blog post (by passing values for, e.g., "Post Title", "Post Date", "Post Body")?
- Website: New sections, for my interests (in particular, Reading, Games, Sports).</li>
- Website: Put this website online somewhere.

As for myself, I feel a fever coming on, so I'm gonna go figure out what we're gonna have for dinner before it gets too much worse.