---
post-id: 28
date-created: 2025-11-13
title: Pokemon TCG
category: games
subtitle: Local 2025-11-13
post-series: ptcg
num-in-series: 2
published: true
---
I've gone back to The Box Room in Cambridge for the Pokemon TCG local. This time, I've brought my own proxy deck, which I printed out this morning and slowly but surely sleeved into 60 of the cards I got from the Phantasmal Flames Prerelease. The deck I chose to run was [Juan Andree Mejía's list](https://limitlesstcg.com/decks/list/21103) from the Gdańsk regional, because I was interested in playing a Gardevoir ex deck, and I wanted a deck which (a) didn't have Jellicent ex, and (b) ran the Secret Box ACE SPEC card instead of Precious Trolley (since I don't know the game well enough to decide what my bench should be precisely on Turn 2).

It turns out that on every turn there's a lot of stuff to do! I ended up timing out all three of my rounds, which I feel really guilty about, especially since I ended up going 2-0-1 and getting 2nd place and therefore 2 prize packs and a booster! 

Indeed I should have lost Round 1, against Luke C's Ceruledge ex deck, but we tied since we ran out of time, although we were really rushing to get that third game in. Round 2 (Winter) and Round 3 (Alessandro) I won after not being able to complete the second game, and winning the first, but I was in a good position to win against both Dragapult ex decks anyways. As I get more familiar with what's going to happen on my turn, and some of the actions of playing in person become more routine, I do think I'll speed up. Avery won a local outright a few weeks ago by timing out all three rounds, too! Which is also pretty gross. But she's new too so it's okay!

### My best cards pulled
On top of the booster we got from entering, I also got a PFL booster as well as two prize packs for getting 2nd place! I also recevied some cards from Winter and Luke C to help un-proxy-fy my deck.
- Battle Cage (PFL 116/094)
- Rotom ex (PFL 029/094)