---
post-id: 27
date-created: 2025-11-11
title: Pokemon TCG
category: games
subtitle: Phantasmal Flames Prerelease
post-series: ptcg
num-in-series: 1
published: true
---
On Thursday, I went to a Phantasmal Flames Prerelease event at The Box Room in Cambridge. It was my first time entering a Pokemon TCG event in person, so I was pretty nervous and I didn't know what was going on, but I ended up coming away 3-0 and in first place! So I thought I'd write about it here. 

### What's a prerelease?
I didn't actually know what a prerelease event was, until my friend Avery convinced me to come along to this one. At the start of the tournament, we each got a [Phantasmal Flames Build & Battle Box](https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Phantasmal_Flames_Build_%26_Battle_Box_(TCG)), which contains one of four ready-made 40-card decks, and four booster packs. From these we have 30 minutes to build a 40-card deck, and then we play a very quick Swiss tournament, with 3 rounds (each game having 4 prizes instead of 6). The winners, and this was unbeknownst to us beforehand, would get prize packs: 1st with two, 2nd and 3rd with one. 

### My deck
I received the Flygon deck, built around Flygon (PFL 053) and Gliscor (PFL 050), and pulled an additional Flygon in one of my boosters, which I swapped in for a Dusk Ball. Hence I could run 4 Trapinch/2 Vibrava/4 Flygon with 2 Rare Candy, which I was happy with.

I also considered using Togedemaru (PFL 073), as well as Mismagius ex (PFL 036) (having pulled a Misdreavus and Wondrous Patch), but I decided that my deck was probably pretty good already and adding more Pokemon was an unnecessary risk.

### My tournament
In Round 1, I played against someone who hadn't really played the Pokemon TCG before, on the Toxtricity deck. I managed to set up my Flygon quick enough to snowball to a comfortable victory. In Round 2, I think I played a Charcadet team, but I managed to donk my opponent very quickly and go eat a Tesco meal deal wrap outside.

Round 3 was the most interesting: I played another Toxtricity deck, and I got my set up as quickly as ever, and it was looking good until my opponent used Grimsley's Move (PFL 094) to place a Mega Gengar ex (PFL 056) on his bench! I had taken 3 out of my 4 prizes, but I knew that I couldn't realistically take down the Mega if he brought it in with appropriate tempo. Luckily, Gliscor has a retreat lock effect, and I managed to play it and use its Poison Ring move on the opponent's currently active Krookodile, trapping it and letting me take the last prize card on the next turn. Lucky!

At this point the tournament was over, but the tournament organizers still ran a Round 4 since we were ahead of schedule. I matched with another 3-0 player, another Toxtricity deck. This game I couldn't get set up for the life of me, and it was looking very grim when my hand was almost entirely energy cards and useless Premium Power Pro (MEG 124), but I also could have played my line a little better: There was a chance I could have milled my opponent's deck to win, using Flygon's Sandy Flapping ability, and retreating to avoid knockouts (since there's little-to-no bench targeting/gusting in this format). I took him down to 1 card in the deck on the turn I lost.

After this Round 4 defeat, the tournament results were announced, based on only the first three rounds. Three players went 3-0: In third place, Avery, in second place, my Round 4 opponent, and in first place, me! Yayyy

### My best cards pulled
- Mismagius ex (PFL 004/094)
- Mega Heracross ex (PFL 036/094)
- Piplup (PFL 098/094)
