---
post-id: 21
date-created: 2025-11-01
title: "Pokemon Legends: Z-A"
category: games
subtitle: Part 5
post-series: "Pokemon Legends: Z-A"
num-in-series: 5
published: true
---
Okay, it's been a min since I've updated this. I've not played that much more of the game so here we go!

### Our New Tasks

The morning after we beat Vinnie to reach Rank F, he asks us to come back to the Quasartico building to "learn the whole story". We get something of a rundown: Quasartico have been dealing with Rogue Mega Pokemon for a while, and AZ thinks Lumiose city is "in peril", so they've devised the Z-A Royale to find Pokemon Trainers who can help. Towards the end of our conversation, Jett, the CEO, walks by us and briefly asks what's going on. What's her deal???

In any case, we did also offer our support to Vinnie and Quasartico to deal with some Rogue Mega Pokemon, so when our first assignments come in, we have a strategy meeting with Team MZ. Our first three assignments are: Mega Camerupt, Mega Victreebel, and... MEGA SLOWBRO!!! Sounds like we're getting a Slowbronite for our beautiful Arthur!

### The Rogue Megas of Rank F

Of course, it's only natural to start with Mega Slowbro, not only because it was the first one assigned to us, but also because it'd be so wonderful to get Arthur a Mega Stone! We've also got a great type matchup into Slowbro: Both our Megas, Niamh the Meganium and Ambrosia the Absol, are super effective, and we even have Máire if we need. **Niamh's** long-range **Bullet Seed** was very powerful in this fight, as my player character spent a lot of time very far away from the Rogue Mega, and upon our victory we obtain the **Slowbronite** :)

Next up: Mega Camerupt! Looks like a perfect opportunity to try out Arthur as Mega Slowbro for the first time. Before we get access to the roof that Camerupt is on, we have to battle past a DYN4MO member, but once we're up there, it's time to get to work. Camerupt, being 4x weak to Water, takes plenty of damage from Arthur's **Surf** and **Water Pulse**, although the latter feels a little bit tricky to hit, being a narrower, slower beam than moves such as Surf and Psybeam. 

Something else I've noticed is we don't get any healing moves, which does make a lot of sense due to there being no PP mechanic, but it feels a bit strange to see Slowbro with no Slack Off, and even Meganium with no Synthesis, and Talonflame with no Roost. Leech Seed and Giga Drain still exist, as well as Draining Kiss, which might be very powerful due to filling a niche that's not otherwise well met. On the other hand, healing is more convenient than ever, with Auto-Heal decreasing the need to go to Pokemon Centers by a lot. Overall, this new battle system seems well thought out and quite fun!

Our third and final Rogue Mega to fight is Mega Victreebel, another new Mega Pokemon, but one that we've seen in the trailers before. This one's a rather tougher matchup for our team, and none of our Megas hit it super effectively, so it's time to use Plus Moves from Fiona our Talonflame! **Swords Dance**-boosted **Aerial Ace+** are able to chunk Mega Victreebel effectively, and even Arthur can chip in (although she did faint after a nasty Power Whip).

Speaking of the stunning mechanic, some aspects of Rogue Mega fights remain elusive to me. How much are Urbain, Lida, and Naveen helping us? When do the Rogue Mega Pokemon get stunned? Do they have multiple phases based on their HP? It does seem like they do, but I can't really tell the differences. I do hope we get to try out some more difficult Rogue Mega fights in the future... but of course, as someone trying to save Lumiose, maybe it doesn't have to come with all the pain the Pokemon are feeling...

After defeating Mega Victreebel, we're visited by Zygarde once again, and it gives us a Pebble! Why?? We also meet L, a man who looks suspiciously like Lysandre, and who seems to have a connection with this Pokemon. He's apparently impressed by our skills, and also is for some reason avoiding Emma. How mysterious...

### Getting Our Next Challenger's Ticket

With these three Rogue Megas under our belt, and Team MZ all together at Hotel Z, we get our next Promotion Match opponent! It's... CANARI?? Naveen's absolutely shocked and doesn't want to help us locate her for our promotion match, which apparently is an issue, because she's very secretive. However, Lida once again bullies Naveen into battling us for access to his help, and he presents us with a plan: We're gonna win the Canari Quiz Whiz Contest with Naveen's help, to get a wish granted, which will be to get a promotion match with Canari! All that's left to do is to get ourselves a Challenger's Ticket.

Now, while it's still daytime, we may as well do some of the Side Missions which have been slowly accumulating as we progress the story: We battle one guy who really likes Normal types, and another who really likes using the moves Reflect and Light Screen. We also visit Rintaro at Restaurant Le Nah once again, to battle through a "Full Course of Battles", which seems to mean, like, three? This looks really fun though and I'm looking forward to there being more Pokemon battles in the future. Speaking of battles, one of my favourite parts of Pokemon Y was the Battle Chateau, and the Battle Zones feel pretty similar in a very nice way... These restaurant challenges on the other hand remind me of Alpha Sapphire's Battle Maison, which presents challenging battles one after another, and I'm excited to see more of both of these concepts.

We catch a Diggersby who was blocking a Holovator, and then there's time for one last mission before nighttime: To get either a Sail Fossil or a Jaw Fossil from the Stone Emporium, and bring it back to the lab! Of course, this means we get to choose between Amaura or Tyrunt, except of course we can buy both :) I presented the Sail Fossil, and the animation was sooo cute that we absolutely have to add the new Amaura to our team: So, welcome, **Aurora the Amaura**! While we're here we also restore the Jaw Fossil to get Tyrunt, who's another cutie.

As the sun goes down, the Battle Zones go up, and it's time to try and get our next Challenger's Ticket! I wanted to try and do it in one night, so we have to really run around and get into battles quickly. It seems like Trainers tend to spawn in a lot of the same spots, so it's pretty easy to find them to battle. And, y'know, since the tutorial, I've not actually found a single trainer that was too difficult to fight! Is that gonna happen again? Am I just lucky? I suspect I'm just overleveled, since I like to play all of these nights the whole way through for the experience and money.

With the help of a very nice "Sneak up on an opposing Trainer 10 times!" card, we crush the required Points total and collect our Challenger's Ticket as well as a whole bunch of cash :)