---
title: Solutions to past and current problems
date-created: 2025-10-01
post-id: 4
category: website
---
First off, the past problems:

It turns out I only added the regular weight font, so some parts of my website (specifically the headings) were showing up as regular weight when they should be **bold**. That's fixed now, I just had to add the rest of the styles and link it in the stylesheet.

Another past issue was one I noted in my blog post on 2025-09-07:

- Blog: Text formatting (How do I italicize text? What's the best way to type an en-dash?)

I've also figured out text formatting, it was indeed a Google away. I think I prefer the markdown style of text formatting, at least typing it out, but I can appreciate the utility, with CSS in mind, of needing a separate element. Also, with UTF-8 encoding, all I need to type an en-dash is to type an en-dash, or type `&amp;ndash;`. I find TeX's shortcuts for en-dashes and em-dashes more elegant, but once again I can see why this is how it is it HTML.

And now, my present dilemma, which is summed up by these two items also from my post on 2025-09-07:

- Blog: Can I store my blog posts somewhere other than this HTML file, and then bring them in using code?
- Blog: Can I automatically format the blog post (by passing values for, e.g., "Post Title", "Post Date", "Post Body")?

I've been kind of stuck with what I want to do here. I have several options here:

- I can try out a static site generator (I've used Gatsby for a bit before, but I'd use Astro instead if I tried again)- I can store my blog posts in a database, and then I use code to add it to this page.

If it's not obvious, I'm not sure how either of these would go. I'm familiar with taking data out of an Excel spreadsheet using Python, and I *could* use Python as a kind of generator for my HTML. On the other hand, maybe it would be simpler or more instructive if I did something else. There's only one way to find out, and it's to do something, so stay tuned I guess.