---
post-id: 22
date-created: 2025-11-01
title: "Pokemon Legends: Z-A"
category: games
subtitle: Part 6
post-series: "Pokemon Legends: Z-A"
num-in-series: 6
---
### Becoming The Canari Quiz Whiz

Now that we have our Challenger's Ticket, it's time to go participate in the Canari Quiz Whiz contest. With Naveen in our earpiece, we get past the security guard at the electrical substation, and are ready and raring to go! Canari appears as a hologram – she apparently doesn't do in-person public appearances – and starts spamming emotes at the hilariously sparse crowd. Let's do DYN4MOThunder Wave!!! (\*waves my hands\*)

The first round consists of us answering questions by running to the correct box on the ground. I didn't need Naveen for the first two questions, because Naveen mentioned those facts to us when he was on his phone watching the stream during our strategy meeting, and then I guessed the third question correctly. Out of the contestants who perfected Round 1, there's one who's being quite dismissive of us, what's your deal??

The second round had us go collect Canari's Eelektross's favourite snack, which is something I definitely don't know. Naveen, help us out! He tells us to mosey over to Café Gallant, where he's waiting an stylishly orders not just any Lumiose Galette, but a **Super Lumiose Galette**, one that's got a backstory for why Canari's Eelektross prefers it. When we got to the Café, the rude guy was leaving, so it's no surprise to us that out of everyone left (including one trainer with a very stylish Chandelure headpiece), just me and that guy brought the correct snack! So, it's just down to the two of us, and to decide who becomes the Canari Quiz Whiz, it turns out we have to battle this guy! We finally get his name: Mani, what an asshole, and he's not a problem for our team to take down.

So it's finally time for our reward: One wish of our choosing! Of course, we want a promotion match, that's what we're here for! Canari's shocked, but tells us to go to Racine Construction. I knew that place had something to do with Canari...

### Getting to Rank E

When we get to 