---
id: 29
date: 2025-11-14
title: Getting to grips with CSS and templating
category: website
subtitle:
post-series:
published: true
---
Something I had been thinking of doing for a while now is to give a visual indication on the navbar for which page you're on. As someone for whom the Web Components stuff is still pretty mysterious, that being the way I implemented the navbar repetitively across pages, I was pretty intimidated by this task. However, getting used to templating with Jinja has opened up a new way to achieve this: Just template it!

Indeed using templating it's easy to programmatically decide classes for elements, and then it's just up to the CSS styling to produce the desired result.

This change has also precipitated some more positive changes to the site: I was noticing that the Python file I use to run all the templating was getting large, so I've modularized it and it's a lot easier to work with now. I should probably write down somewhere convenient the prerequisites chain for the Python scripts I'm now using, but I'm not sure of where the best place for that would be. 

Also, in anticipation of me creating more than one navbar, and also of me adding more and longer items to the navbar, I've figured out how to appropriately size the navbar to give enough space for its contents, even after transformations (which is how I'm achieving the subway-style effect): ~~I've set the `aspect-ratio` parameter for the div, which allows me to control the height of the div according to its width, which itself is set to `fit-content`.~~ This is not quite complete a solution, but it's on the right track. I also have to set `overflow-y` to `hidden`, then I add all the padding necessary to not hide anything: 1em on each side, then 100% on the bottom. Finally, I negate the effect of this padding on the spacing between elements, using a negative margin: -1em on each side, then -100% on the top.

Just a question: Can I automate the running of make-all.py before I commit? Or whenever I make a change to the website?