---
id: 23
date: 2025-11-03
title: "Pokemon Legends: Z-A"
category: games
subtitle: Part 7
post-series: plza
published: true
---
### Looking for Gwynn

In fact, we got our Challenger's Ticket from our first nighttime after ranking up to Rank E, so indeed we can go to the Justice Dojo to look for Ivor. It's been a while, though, since we last spoke to Emma, especially since we've done quite a few Side Missions in the meanwhile. She's of course at the Looker Bureau, not snoozing this time, and the dialogue she gives is: "Let's ask around to see if anyone has any information about Gwynn's whereabouts". Who's Gwynn??? (Indeed I think this dialogue maybe isn't one we're supposed to see yet?)

At the Justice Dojo, we fight against Josée once again, whom we once fought outside Wild Zone 3. She's a lot stronger, but so are we, so she's not a big challenge. She tells us that Ivor isn't really at the dojo these days, and neither is Gwynn, his sister... And then, Ivor runs into the Dojo and screams for Gwynn! It seems she's missing, and we can't have a promotion match until we find her! So, who else to go to than Emma?

Ivor comes with us to tell Emma about the situation (which tells me the dialogue from earlier maybe wasn't supposed to be there), and we first decide to ask around City Hall. We're pointed towards Nouveau Cafe, and then we find out that Gwynn has been hanging out with Canari. So, for some reason we decide it's a good idea to tell Emma and Ivor where Canari is, at Racine Construction, like seriously how is that ever a good idea? After defeating Canari in battle once again, we get a clue, which basically is to have look around at the Clawitzer water fountain, and to be creative. This also means that Gwynn's probably not really in trouble, but just in a special little space for herself. Should we really be tracking her down?

At the water fountain, we get the bright idea to freeze the water to stop it from coming out. I mean, this would probably destroy the fountain by the expansion of ice, but it somehow doesn't. And actually, we use Aurora's Freeze-Dry to freeze the water, for which there's some special dialogue :) With the fountain frozen, we see the entrance to the sewers. Maybe Gwynn's there?

### The Sewers

The sewers are a new area to us, with a new minimap and new wild Pokemon! It's a little maze which we can fully explore, which feels very nostalgic for the Gen 6 games, and reminds me in particular of exploring places such as Glittering Cave. The first wild Pokemon we encounter are Noibat, but then... right around the corner... SCRAGGY!!!!!! WE FINALLY FOUND SCRAGGY!!! I'm sooo happy, Scraggy and Scrafty are my favourite Pokemon and I'm so excited to catch one!!! So, welcome to the team, **Tina the Scraggy**! Elsewhere in the sewers we also find Skrelp, Litwick, and even an Inkay.

We come up to a locked gate that we don't know what to deal with. We catch a Klefki we see and see if that helps, but it doesn't... So Ivor punches on through! Are we ruining Gwynn's hiding spot? I'm so sorry!!!

Exploring further, we come once again to a dead end. We look around for clues of what to do, but we can't think of anything, and Ivor's gonna punch down a wall, until we discover that one of the walls is not real! It's just a mirage, and we can just walk through! Following the path from here leads us, finally, to the Gwynn we've been searching for.

### Hey Gwynn, Sorry We Ruined Your Spot

And it's the girl from Canari's Quiz Whiz Contest, with the cute Chandelure hat! That makes so much sense now... She actually recognizes us too, which is so sweet of her. It turns out, Ivor's caused so much stress for his Gwynn that she's had to find a place to hide for a while. I'm so sorry Gwynn, that sounds awful, why are we even telling Ivor where you are?? Did we have to tell him where Canari was too?? Hmph. 

Well, I suppose it's only fitting that we have to have a Pokemon Battle, before Gwynn comes out with us. Her Pokemon are fittingly spooky, especially the Mega Chandelure, which I'm so excited is in this game!!! I have to have one :)) 

So yeah, now that we have Gwynn, we can go battle Ivor at the Justice Dojo when we feel up to it.
