---
id: 36
date: 2025-11-30
title: Developing a Graphical Standings Tool
category: fun
subtitle: "Part 2: What makes a graphic?"
post-series: gstool
published: true
---
In this blog post I want to specify the structure of my SVG output, to get a better overview of how the graphic will be built.

### Foundations
There are certain things each of my graphics is going to need to be able to draw, and which do not rely on data. Here I've laid them out in a general hierarchy based on exactly how influenced each item is on another.
- Background
	- Plot title
	- Panel
		- Axis lines (major, minor)
		- Ticks
		- Tick labels
	- Axis titles (vertical, horizontal)
The **panel** refers to the area of the image which will contain the plotted area, and it may be viewed in terms of the alternate coordinate system which the graphic inhabits. It would be convenient to be able to write stuff in terms of (x, y) coordinates on the graph, and the panel contains the crucial data required to do the translations.

### A Skeleton SVG

Here is a skeleton SVG showing just those elements which are plotted agnostic to the panel's (x, y) coordinates. Some guide lines are shown in green. 

<object data="/blog/attachments/2025/11-Nov/2025-11-30/skeleton.svg" type="image/svg+xml"></object>

The code for the Python script to build this SVG, as well as the files for the SVG and the accompanying CSS stylesheet can be found in [this folder](/blog/attachments/2025/11-Nov/2025-11-30/). I'm using ElementTree which is a lot of fun, and in particular I'm extending the Element class in order to be able to declare the content of the element upon initialization. The key lines:

	import xml.etree.ElementTree as ET
	
	class SVGElement(ET.Element):
	    def __init__(self, tag, attrib={}, text=None, **extra):
	        super().__init__(tag, attrib, **extra)
	        self.text = text

This is my first time extending a class using Python, and I'm very happy with the result! And I'm happy to have gotten the idea to do this in the first place. Now, I'm not sure what a good name for my new class is, `SVGElement` was the best I could come up with for now, because I wasn't comfortable calling it `Element`, in case of clashes. I don't know if that's founded or not.