---
id: 35
date: 2025-11-25
title: Developing a Graphical Standings Tool
category: fun
subtitle: Part 1
post-series:
num-in-series:
published: false
---
### The Goal
My goal with this project is to build a tool to easily turn data from a sports league into a nice-looking graphic that I can share with others. 

In most professional sports leagues, each team plays a certain number of games in a season, the results of which determine their position in the final standings. I want to plot the relative performance of each team over the course of the season, to provide an at-a-glance overview of how the season went.

The **input** can be split into two main components: **data** and **style**. The **data** from the sports league season will be plotted and visualized in the graphic. The **style** will be aesthetic settings otherwise related to the graphic, such as label positioning and major/minor breaks.

The **output** will be SVG files created by the ElementTree extension in Python. This is something I've been dabbling with for a long time, so I can give you some examples of what I'm going for: See my (as of writing) [most recent post](https://old.reddit.com/r/nfl/comments/1p0jwux/nfl_graphical_standings_week_11_2025/) on Reddit.

### Minimum success criteria
Given that I have examples of what I'm going for already, why am I starting a blog, a multi-part blog at that, about developing this tool further? That's because I'm not happy with how the tool exists in its current state. It's a clunky piece of code and it takes an outsize amount of effort to run every week.

I will consider this project a success if the following criteria are met:
- The program should take data from a season (possibly in progress) and produce an SVG visualizing the data in the way desired. 
- The program should **not** rely on any external tools, such as Google Sheets, to run easily and efficiently.
- The program should be able to work without league-specific modifications on each of the NFL, PWHL, and WSL.
	- The NFL has ties as well as bye weeks, which I want to distinguish from each other (for example by using a **dashed line** for bye weeks).
	- The PWHL gives points to teams differently based on **whether the game went to overtime or not**.
	- The WSL has an **asymmetric points system** (as common in soccer leagues): 3 points for a win, 1 for a tie, 0 for a loss.
- My Python code should be well-documented and easy to maintain.
	- In particular I will use docstrings and maintain a consistent style throughout.
	- Maybe I'll use type hinting as well, depending on how nicely this plays with pandas DataFrames and Series with ambiguous detected types within.

### Bonus
There are things I want to be able to do, not right now but in the future, and which will require each of the minimum success criteria to be met before I can start thinking about them.
- Tiebreaking. When two teams are tied in the standings, which one is on top? For my minimum success I will not specify what order they should be in: Just a consistent one, such as alphabetical.
- Interactivity. Using JavaScript I can make the graphic change when hovering or clicking certain elements. My (yet minimal) CSS and web development experience should help me with this.