---
id: 58
date: 2025-12-31
title: Developing a Graphical Standings Tool
category: fun
subtitle: Part 12
post-series: gstool
published: true
---
Hey! It's been a few days since I touched this project. Last time I worked on this, a wrote up a quick function to plot images onto my graph, and that's working smoothly! I think I may take some time to uniformize function behaviour and clean up my code before I proceed any further.

Let's build a wishlist for my project.

- Plot title and axis titles which are not hard-coded in position but rather are dynamic to the plot and panel.
- Separate classes for tools which will be used in other graphics versus tools which are specific to the Graphical Standings project.
- Deterministic output for the `classes` property of the `Element` class.

### Deterministic output for the `Element.classes` property
I've been thinking (and talking with Trice) about this and I think that it'll be worthwhile for the behaviour of the `Element.classes` property to be deterministic. To this end I've changed one line of the definition of the setter function, making it sort the set of classes before outputting to the SVG.

### Removing `xlink`
The `xlink` namespace is no longer needed for `xlink:href`. Some programs may still appreciate it, but I think I will forgo the namespace declaration until it causes problems. In particular I think Inkscape still wants `xlink` but linking to external files with `href` is already out of Inkscape's GUI capabilities, and command-line Inkscape had a weird bug that makes me want to try other options first.

### Consolidated `CSS_CLASSES` dictionary
I was defining more and more dictionaries to hold the correspondences between the axes and names of CSS classes, so I defined a new one to rule them all. 

### Uniformizing function names
Right now I have six functions which return an `Element` corresponding to a given plot element: `axis_break()`, `axis_tick()`, `tick_label()`, `dot_element()`, `polygon_element()`, `image_element()`. The corresponding functions to place them on the graphic are: `add_axis_breaks()`, `add_axis_ticks()`, `add_tick_labels()`, `plot_dots()`, `plot_polygons()`, `plot_image()`.

These are a little bit all over the place. I will rename the functions returning an `Element` to: `get_break_el()`, `get_tick_el()`, `get_tick_label_el()`, `get_dot_el()`, `get_polygon_el()`, `get_image_el()`.

The functions to add or plot these elements are a bit less straightforward to my mind to name: I think I will go with: `add_breaks()`, `add_ticks()`, `add_tick_labels()`, `add_dots()`, `add_polygons()`, and `add_images()`.

### Uniformizing function behaviour: When does the computation occur?
Out of the six `get_[thing]_el()` functions named above, some of them take data in terms of SVG coordinates, and some take data in terms of plot coordinates. That should be uniformized.

Indeed, when I call the `add_[thing]()` functions, coordinates are specified in terms of the plot (at least, for these six functions). I think what I will do is I will modify the `get_[thing]_el()` functions to take plot coordinates and indeed to do the translation computations by itself. That should make the class simpler overall.