---
id: 50
date: 2025-12-17
title: Developing a Graphical Standings Tool
category: fun
subtitle: "Part 6: Enums and list comprehension"
post-series: gstool
published: true
---
My incredibly knowledgeable girlfriend has pointed me to some very useful ideas and tools over the years. Two in particular stand out today: **enums** and **list comprehension**.
### Enums
In the last blog post, I was complaining about writing two separate functions, one for the x-axis and one for the y-axis, several times. I thought about condensing these functions, which are indeed quite similar to each other, into single functions, with a parameter denoting the axis, similarly to how `pandas` does things, although I wasn't thrilled with having a mysterious boolean or integer which I may one day forget the meaning of.

Therefore, enums! Defining a new enum `Axis` is easy and makes these new `axis` parameters I'm adding so much more readable. Finally, the type-checker I'm using, Pylance through the Python extension on VS Code, is perfectly happy with the completeness of my `match`-`case` constructions, so indeed they are guaranteed not to fail ever and so we don't get legally partial functions. 
### List comprehension
Another wonderful item in our toolbelt is Python list comprehensions! This is something I know about, but I never use, because I never think to use it, when I'm thinking about my algorithms. I think that's my loss, because it's so convenient and much more readable even than my `list(map(...))` habit.

There's another benefit to using list comprehensions, which is that there's no need to lambda new functions when they're not obvious: When I had functions `rescale_x()` and `rescale_y()`, mapping these functions onto a list was easy as pie, but now with a unified function `rescale()`, taking an `axis` parameter, list comprehensions make the code much simpler. Good habits beget good habits!