---
id: 56
date: 2025-12-27
title: Developing a Graphical Standings Tool
category: fun
subtitle: "Part 11: Plotting polygons"
post-series: gstool
published: true
---
Now that we have dots, I want to be able to plot arbitrary polygons on the the graphic, with vertices defined according to plot coordinates. This shouldn't actually be too bad!

Indeed, I managed to code it up and make sure it's working in about 15 minutes. 

I have a few thoughts again about how this all should work. In particular, my CSS class naming convention is a little bit all over the place. My last two CSS classes have been `plotted-dots` and `plotted-polygons` which is fair, but then I have `x-breaks`, `x-ticks`, `y-tick-breaks`, and so on. Should I add something in front of these in order to pre-classify them, so it's more obvious what they're talking about? I think so. But what? `plot-` seems too close to `plotted-`, but I think it may still be the most appropriate.

Anyways I want to write this down as well: I think it's a pretty good idea for me to only class-ify the `g` SVG elements rather than each little `circle` or `polygon` I plot, since I'll want to style each of these as a group anyways using the appropriate CSS selector.

### Rectangles
Rectangles are another thing I'm not planning on using for this specific project, but something I may end up using in the future, for example for bar charts or histograms. There are several ways to define a plotted rectangle, as was the case for dots. Even more so for rectangles: Do we want to define the rectangles based on centre and size? Or rather by their corners?

### Images
So maybe it's better to focus on **images**, which I will actually be plotting in this project. I will be plotting these based on centre and size, where size can be with respect to the SVG or plot coordinates, with respect to either the x- or y- axis, and with fixed aspect ratio.
