---
id: 53
date: 2025-12-25
title: Developing a Graphical Standings Tool
category: fun
subtitle: "Part 8: Ticks (and more considerations)"
post-series: gstool
published: true
---
Now, I want to add something new to my graphic, that I've not quite figured out properly in previous attempts at this project: Ticks and tick labels. My hope with this project is that I can use the modularized and clean code I've written so far and that I can build something that makes ticks and tick labels in a customizable and predictable way.

### Ticks
First things first, adding ticks to the graphic isn't very hard at all: I can pretty much do the exact same thing I did with the axis breaks. At this point a little alarm goes off in my head: Should these functionalities be merged or condensed together in some way? Indeed, there are several overlapping processes, but there are also meaningful differences in the objects and goals: for example, ticks can have **varying lengths**, while breaks do not.

I have had to make a decision here, which I'm not sure about. Should I code my `self.add_ticks()` function so that there is just one `tick_length` parameter which is uniformly applied to each of the ticks? Or should I let the tick length be customizable for each tick?

I have decided that it makes more sense to, in the case of multiple tick lengths, simply call `self.add_ticks()` more than once. This is also the way one would add multiple sets of axis breaks, which may have different colours, or line widths.

### Changing my code so that what I just talked about is actually possible
And now I've run into a little issue here. The way I've been coding so far is, when I want to add a graphical element, first define a new `Element` attribute on the `GSToolGraphic` class, and edit that, and then append it to the `svg` attribute, or perhaps onto another attribute (which will have been appended eventually to the `svg` attribute).

There are a few benefits to this approach that I had in mind: The primary one being that the SVG will have a better hierarchy, and related elements will be nearer to each other in the resulting document. A related benefit is the possibility of, outside of the class functions, we can also append new `Element` objects to different parts of the SVG. For example, guidelines for the vertical and horizontal axis titles can be added to the same group as the vertical and horizontal axis titles, respectively.

There are a few downsides, at least how I've implemented it so far: The first and most major is that things can only be defined once. If I call `self.add_axis_breaks` again, then the axis breaks SVG group will be reset. That is not desirable. The other is that we cannot add axis breaks without first defining the panel, since the axis breaks are added to the panel's SVG group. This is actually, now that I think about it, a good thing: In defining the panel we define the plot's limits as well as the size of location of the plottable area. Using CSS we can make the panel's own rectangle invisible, if desired.

So! What I'm saying is, I need to strike a balanced middle ground. Here's what I'm thinking.

- Some things should only be defined once: Background, panel, plot title, axis titles. There should be a toggle which is switched when these are defined, which doesn't let you define it again.
- Some things should be allowed to be defined more than once. This functionality is particularly useful for: axis breaks, and ticks, and tick labels.
- Defining some things should depend on other things being defined. For example, it shouldn't be possible to define axis breaks until the panel (i.e. plottable area) is defined.

For the first kind of element, it still makes sense to store the group's `Element` in somewhere accessible, so that it's editable (and in particular so that it's possible to append to). The second kind of element will be forgotten about once added.