---
id: 49
date: 2025-12-17
title: Developing a Graphical Standings Tool
category: fun
subtitle: "Part 5: Axis breaks"
post-series: gstool
published: true
---
I've been working on drawing **axis breaks** using my program. To do this, I will first need:
- A way to translate from "plot" coordinates to "panel/SVG" coordinates.
- A way to store the plot limits as well as panel dimensions.

I've made a `Box` class, which is a named tuple containing parameters `x_lims` and `y_lims` denoting the boundary of a box. I've also added on some computed properties, `x_min`, `x_max`, `y_min`, and `y_max`: I've used the `@property` decorator in the class definition which is pretty fun, and something I've not known to do before :) Python's got more depth than I know so far... I do wonder where I can learn more of what I might want to do in Python, and what I might be overlooking in my mind because I instantly filter it as impossible or too much effort. Perhaps a college course, or studiously following a textbook, or maybe just keeping on trying and thinking and iterating on this project!

Anyways, I built my translation functions: A `rescale` function which I intend to act similarly to `scale` in R (and I do wonder if this could go in a personal library of useful functions I find myself rewriting), plus some `GSToolGraphic` class-specific functions to translate along the x- and y- axes. I do wonder if there's something clever I can do to condense both of these functions I've defined, `rescale_plot_to_panel_x` and `rescale_plot_to_panel_y`, to one function which takes a toggle for the axis, similarly to how the `axis` parameter works in the `pandas` library. Should I use an enum class, for clarity?

Finally, I built my functions to draw axis breaks on my skeleton graphic, and it all works as expected! I designed it to ignore breaks outside the plottable area quietly, although maybe it should pass a warning? I think when I used ggplot2 I did make use of the fact that this kind of thing would fail quietly but maybe there's no such need for me now, if I play my cards right and keep everything simple.

There's just one issue which is that the lines don't join together, although maybe this will be mitigated by adding my own ticks? We'll see...

<object data="/blog/attachments/projects/gstool/skeleton3.svg" type="image/svg+xml"></object>